---
title: CSS Grid
tags: css
date: 2019-01-31 14:50:10
---


## Grid Container

Turn any HTML element into a grid container by setting its `display` property to `grid`.

```html
<style>
  .container {
    display: grid;
  }
</style>

<div class="container">

</div>
```

**Note**

Turning an element into a grid only affects the behavior of its direct descendants. So by turning a direct descendant into a grid, you have a grid within a grid.

### Define the structure of the grid

#### grid-template-columns

To add some columns to the grid, use the `grid-template-columns` property on a grid container

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 50px 50px;
}
```

The number of parameters given to the grid-template-columns property indicates the number of columns in the grid, and the value of each parameter indicates the width of each column.

参考资料：

- [Add Columns with grid-template-columns](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/add-columns-with-grid-template-columns/)


#### grid-template-rows

The `grid-template-rows` property specifies the number (and the heights) of the rows in a grid layout.

虽然 `grid-template-rows` 的参数个数表示 grid 的行数，但实际上，grid 行数还是受 gird item 个数和 `gird-template-columns` 的影响。

[grid-template-rows example](https://codepen.io/luohuidong/pen/YRGENq)

从链接中的例子中可以看出，第 2 个 container 的 `grid-template-rows` 定义了 1 行，但是由于 `grid-template-columns` 定义了 3 列，则 5 个 grid item 必定需要 2 行才能容纳得下。因此可以得知 gird 的行数，实际上还是会受 grid item 个数和 `gird-template-columns` 影响。

参考资料：

- [Add Rows with grid-template-rows](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/add-rows-with-grid-template-rows)
- [CSS grid-template-rows Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-template-rows.asp)

#### repeat()

如果你想给 grid container 定义一百列，或者一百行，这时候在 `grid-template-columns` 或者 `grid-template-rows` 填写 100 个参数明显是不可取的。此时可以使用内置函数 `repeat()`。

Here's an example that would create the 100 row grid, each row at 50px tall.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-rows: repeat(100, 50px);
}
```

参考资料：

- [Reduce Repetition Using the repeat Function](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/reduce-repetition-using-the-repeat-function/)

#### Grid units

You can use absolute and relative units like `px` and `em` in CSS Grid to define the size of rows and columns.

You can use these as well:

- `fr`: sets the column or row to a fraction of the available space.
- `auto`: sets the column or row to the width or height of its content automatically.
- `%`: adjusts the column or row to the percent width of its container.

仅仅只是看 `fr` 作用描述可能不太好理解，举一个简单的例子来解释一下:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 50px 2fr 1fr;
}
```

上面的例子中，第一列为 50px 宽度，剩余的空间会被分成 3 份，其中，第 2 列占据了 2 份，而第 3 列占据了 1 份。

参考资料：

- [Use CSS Grid units to Change the Size of Columns and Rows](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/use-css-grid-units-to-change-the-size-of-columns-and-rows/)

### Grid Gap

#### grid-column-gap

To add a gap between the columns, use the grid-column-gap property like this:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: auto auto;
  grid-column-gap: 10px;
}
```

This creates 10px of empty space between all of our columns.

参考资料：

- [Create a Column Gap Using grid-column-gap](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/create-a-column-gap-using-grid-column-gap/)
- [CSS grid-column-gap Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-column-gap.asp)

#### grid-row-gap

The `grid-row-gap` property defines the size of the gap between the rows in a grid layout.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-row-gap: 50px;
}
```

#### grid-gap

The `grid-gap` property defines the size of the gap between the rows and columns in a grid layout, and is a shorthand property for `grid-row-gap` and `grid-column-gap`.

If `grid-gap` has one value, it will create a gap between all rows and columns. However, if there are two values, it will use the first one to set the gap between the rows and the second value for the columns.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: auto auto;
  grid-gap: 50px;
}
```

### Align All Items

#### justify-items

使用 `justify-self` 可以对单个 grid item 中的内容进行水平方向的对齐操作。如果想对所有的 grid container 中所有 item 的内容进行水平方向的操作，可以使用 `justify-items`，该属性接收的值与 `justify-self` 相同。

参考资料：

- [justify-items](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/justify-items)

#### align-items

使用 `align-self` 可以对单个 grid item 内容进行垂直方向的对齐操作。如果想对所有的 grid container 中所有的 item 内容进行垂直方向的操作，可以使用 `align-items`，该属性接收的值与 `align-self` 相同。

参考资料：

- [align-items](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/align-items)

## Grid Item

### grid-column

The `grid-column` property specifies a grid item's size and location in a grid layout, and is a shorthand property for `grid-column-start` and `grid-column-end`.

```css
.item {
  grid-column: 1 / 3;
}
```

参考资料：

- [Use grid-column to Control Spacing](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/use-grid-column-to-control-spacing/)
- [CSS grid-column Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-column.asp)
- [CSS grid-column-start Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-column-start.asp)
- [CSS grid-column-end Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-column-end.asp)

### grid-row

The grid-row property specifies a grid item's size and location in a grid layout, and is a shorthand property for the `grid-row-start` and `grid-row-end`.

```css
.item {
  grid-row: 2 / 4;
}
```

参考资料：

- [CSS grid-row Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-row.asp)
- [CSS grid-row-start Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-row-start.asp)
- [CSS grid-row-end Property](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_grid-row-end.asp)

### Align an item

#### justify-self

In CSS Grid, the content of each item is located in a box which is referred to as a cell. You can align the content's position within its cell horizontally using the justify-self property on a grid item.

By default, this property has a value of stretch, which will make the content fill the whole width of the cell.

Values:

- stretch: makes the content fill the whole width of the cell.
- start: aligns the content at the left of the cell.
- center: aligns the content in the center of the cell.
- end: aligns the content at the right of the cell.

参考资料：

- [Align an Item Horizontally using justify-self](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/align-an-item-horizontally-using-justify-self/)
- [justify-self](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/justify-self)

#### align-self

Just as you can align an item horizontally, there's a way to align an item vertically as well. To do this, you use the `align-self` property on an item. This property accepts all of the same values as `justify-self`.

## Grid Areas

### grid-template-areas

You can group cells of your grid together into an area and give the area a custom name. Do this by using `grid-template-areas` on the container like this:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-areas:
    "header header header"
    "advert content content"
    "footer footer footer";
}
```

The code above merges the top three cells together into an area named `header`, the bottom three cells into a `footer` area, and it makes two areas in the middle row; `advert` and `content`.

**Note**

Every word in the code represents a cell and every pair of quotation marks represent a row.

In addition to custom labels, you can use a period (`.`) to designate an empty cell in the grid.

### grid-area

After creating an areas template for your grid container, you can place an item in your custom area by referencing the name you gave it. To do this, you use the grid-area property on an item like this:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-areas:
    "header header header"
    "advert content content"
    "footer footer footer";
}

.item1 {
  grid-area: header;
}
```

This lets the grid know that you want the item1 class to go in the area named header. In this case, the item will use the entire top row because that whole row is named as the header area.

---

If your grid doesn't have an areas template to reference, you can create an area on the fly for an item to be placed like this:

```css
item1 {
  grid-area: 1/1/2/4;
}
```

So the item in the example will consume the rows between lines 1 and 2, and the columns between lines 1 and 4.

## build-in function

### repeat()

When you used `grid-template-columns` and `grid-template-rows` to define the structure of a grid, you entered a value for each row or column you created.

Lets say you want a grid with 100 rows of the same height. It isn't very practical to insert 100 values individually. Fortunately, there's a better way - by using the `repeat` function to specify the number of times you want your column or row to be repeated, followed by a comma and the value you want to repeat.

Here's an example that would create the 100 row grid, each row at 50px tall.

```css
.container {
  display: gird;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(100, 50px);
}
```

You can also repeat multiple values with the repeat function, and insert the function amongst other values when defining a grid structure. Here's what I mean:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr 50px) 20px;
}
```

This translates to:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 1fr 50px 1fr 50px 20px;
}
```

### minmax()

It's used to limit the size of items when the grid container changes size. To do this you need to specify the acceptable size range for your item. Here is an example:

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 100px minmax(50px, 200px);
}
```

In the code above, grid-template-columns is set to create two columns; the first is 100px wide, and the second has the minimum width of 50px and the maximum width of 200px.


## Layout

### Create Flexible Layouts

#### auto-fill

The repeat function comes with an option called `auto-fill`. This allows you to automatically insert as many rows or columns of your desired size as possible depending on the size of the container. You can create flexible layouts when combining `auto-fill` with `minmax`.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fill, minmax(60px, 1fr));
}
```

When the container changes size, this setup keeps inserting 60px columns and stretching them until it can insert another one.

**Note**

If your container can't fit all your items on one row, it will move them down to a new one.

#### auto-fit

`auto-fit` works almost identically to `auto-fill`. The only difference is that when the container's size exceeds the size of all the items combined, `auto-fill` keeps inserting empty rows or columns and pushes your items to the side, while `auto-fit` collapses those empty rows or columns and stretches your items to fit the size of the container.

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(60px, 1fr));
}
```

**Note**

If your container can't fit all your items on one row, it will move them down to a new one.

### Create Responsive Layouts

CSS Grid can be an easy way to make your site more responsive by using media queries to rearrange grid areas, change dimensions of a grid, and rearrange the placement of items.

参考资料：

- [Use Media Queries to Create Responsive Layouts](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/css-grid/use-media-queries-to-create-responsive-layouts/)
